Welcome to a galaxy far, far away!

Much like in normal Star Wars Galaxies, in Legend of Hondo your characters will be able to live in and interact with the Star Wars universe in a way that is largely determined by your personal interests. There are several crafting, combat, and general interest professions to explore, as well as a wide variety of activities to take part in. However, should you choose the life of a Pirate, Legend of Hondo will provide you with a clear, yet multifaceted path to becoming a legend in your time. You can see this path by opening your Skill Tree (CTRL+S). 

IMPORTANT
Legend of Hondo has been designed to be turned on and off like any other single player game. There is no need to run the server component when you're not actively playing the game (unless you're waiting on a factory, but those run times are still quite short). Turn it off, save some electricity.

SKILL TREE
You will notice that there is only one starting profession, Scout. The scouting tree provides you with the variety of essential life skills that all aspiring pirates need to survive. Scout, like all of the pirate skill progression, does not require the use of Skill Points. Simply earn the XP and speak with the Scout Trainer to learn the skill. The supporting professions are where you can spend your Skill Points on enhancing your character's abilities and opening up new areas of game play. While these professions aren't required to progress as a pirate, you will most likely need at least some of the healing abilities provided by Combat Medic if you plan on going to dangerous locations.

EARNING XP
There are many different kinds of XP, each related to the tasks one must do to earn them. These are indicated on the Skill Tree when hovering your mouse over a skill box. In Legend of Hondo, you are able to earn Medical XP by healing yourself and your pets, at a rate that will allow you to level though natural game play. The various types of combat XP can be earned by equipping an associated weapon and engaging in combat. Crafting XP is earned by crafting, however a significant amount of General Crafting XP can also be earned (without the need for resources) by completing crafting missions from an Artisan Mission Terminal. Wilderness Survival XP can be earned by earn by camping, foraging, milking creatures, fishing, and by completing hunting missions from an Explorer Mission Terminal. After you get your foot in the door with the underworld types, Pirate XP can be earned by completing quests for criminals, slicing various items, and by completing destroy missions. Be careful when interacting with criminals, as the default action is to fight them - use your radial menu to select the converse option!

TRAINERS
You will find a trainer for all professions in your home town of Mos Espa. In fact, the Scout trainer is standing directly to your right! Also nearby is Nee Bayab, a busy lady who can probably put you to work doing something that will help you learn where things are in town. 

CHARACTERS
You may have up to 10 characters as part of your "pirate crew". You're able to create one every 5 minutes. All of your characters may become Master Pirates, but only one character will be able to progress through the Renown/Infamy system toward becoming a Legendary or a Dread Pirate. With Legend of Hondo being a solo RPG based on SWGEmu, technically you could create any number of accounts, each with their own 10 characters with, however doing so is beyond the scope of the game's development (and will likely break things).

EARNING CREDITS
Mission terminals, quests, and Junk Dealers will be your primary sources of income until one of your characters becomes a renown and/or infamous pirate. Junk Dealers will buy almost any item, including any that you have crafted, so be sure to visit them regularly. Keep in mind that some Junk Dealers only purchase looted weapons, armor, or clothing, while others will buy general loot and crafted items. The galaxy is full of people who need your help and who are willing to pay you for it, so get out there and find them!

COMBAT
The combat system functions identically to normal "pre-cu" Star Wars Galaxies, with the exception of several major differences in how stats, resource pools, and armor are used. For starters, running out of Health is the only way to become incapacitated. Action gets used up when you perform attacks. The Mind pool is consumed when you use healing abilities. Your HAM will regenerate quickly while you are sitting anywhere out of combat, however your wounds and Battle Fatigue will only heal while sitting in a camp or in a hospital (wounds can also be healed with wound medicine packs). 

Armor requires certification to equip and is broken down in to Light, Medium, and Heavy. Only a Master Commando may wear Heavy Armor, while Medium armor may be worn masters of other combat professions. Light armor certification is earned by Scouts at Combat IV: Advanced Tactics. Finally, armor encumbrance does not effect your stats, rather effects your self healing abilities, as well as your attack and healing speed. As such, you can equip any armor that you're certified to wear, even if it has high encumbrance. Medium and Heavy rated armor can be created by an Armorsmith using a special upgrading process that is attached to private Clothing Crafting Stations.

OBTAINING ITEMS AND GEAR
Essential gear, resources, and other items can be purchased from the Bazaar terminals, however the quality of these items is limited. For higher quality items you must seek out the Merchants who inhabit the galaxy, selling all manner of goodies, or add a talented crafter to your crew (aka, make stuff yourself!). You should be aware that like you, Merchants also have friends and enemies, so your standing with the various minor factions of the galaxy will play a large roll in your dealings with many of them. Some Merchants are so exclusive they will only sell to their wares to Master Pirates!

SELLING LOOT AND ITEMS
Junk Dealers and certain Merchants are the only folks who will purchase things from you. However, both the Bazzar and the personal vendor system are still there for you to sell items to your other characters if you would like.

GATHERING RESOURCES
Legend of Hondo is not Star Wars Galaxies, it's a game based on Star Wars Galaxies. As such, harvesters and AFK hand sampling have been removed and replaced with active resource collection activities. When you're new, survey mission from Artisan Mission Terminals will be your primary source of resources (and a healthy amount of credits!), as you will be granted a stack of the resource you surveyed upon completing a mission. Higher concentrations grant larger stacks of resources, so it definitely pays to be a super sleuth! You will also find that you can purchase a selection of current resources on the Bazaar for reasonable prices. Some quests will grant resources and you will most certainly encounter plenty of resource caches in your toiling as Pirate. Eventually you will be able to go into the mining business, as part of the yet-to-be-developed Pirate Business System (as of July 2017), where some of what your company produces will be available for your personal use. Finally, creature resources can still be collected in the normal SWG manner.

HOUSING
Once again, Legend of Hondo is not Star Wars Galaxies! In LoH, there aren't any housing deeds and the only place you and your pirate crew can live is in Mos Espa. Here in your home town, you will find buildings that you can purchase using the "Hondo Housing System". There are terminals located throughout the city which allow you to purchase (and temporarily tour!) homes and factories. Most lots offer a variety of buildings to choose from, many of which were not available to players in normal SWG. Speaking of Mos Espa being your home town, many Merchants sell special items that may be used as decorations that you can place outside (including on balconies of buildings) anywhere in town!

BECOMING A PIRATE
The pirate system is still being developed, so at this time (July 2017) you're only able to progress up to Pirate 4xxx, the Bounty Hunter line. In time, more quests, theme parks, and game play systems will fill out the Pirate progression system. The Skill Tree has descriptions for much of what it is to come!
